---
breaks: false

description: Custom dual ERC1155 and ERC721 implementation
---

# [Dual ERC1155 and ERC721 Implementation](https://github.com/thesandboxgame/sandbox-smart-contracts/blob/master/src/solc_0.8/asset/ERC1155ERC721.sol)

## Introduction

This document describes our custom implementation of both [EIP-1155](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1155) (for limited editions tokens) and [EIP-721](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-721) (for non fungible, unique tokens) in one smart contract.

One advantage of this dual implementation is that our token is compatible with wallets or marketplaces that support both EIP.

Reading the [EIP-1155](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1155) and [EIP-721](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-721) documentation is a pre-requisite to read this document, but
here below we explain the most important aspects.

### ERC721

1. Non-fungible tokens (NFTs) are digital assets that are provably unique, creating digital scarcity.
2. They can't be duplicated or divided.
3. They have many use cases, including for digital collectibles, music, artwork, and in-game tokens.

### ERC115

1. Tokens standards like ERC-20 and ERC-721 require a separate contract to be deployed for each token type or collection, **ERC1155** allow you to use one contract for every ERC20 and ERC721 contract you may have.
2. New functionality is possible with this design such as transferring multiple token types at once.

## Implementation

The ERC1155ERC721 contract shares the same functionalities as ERC20 and ERC721 (ie get balance, get owner, burn, mint, batch burn, batch mint, approval...).

Each token ID contains all the data of the current token (Creator, isNFT, number of token when minted, pack ID...). When a specific information of this Id is needed a mask is applied to fetch the wanted data.

The contract provides you the ability to change an ERC1155 token to an ERC721 unique token using the `extractERC721From` function. For example, it is used when you want to associate [a catalyst and gems](../catalyst/catalyst.md) to an asset or if you want to sell an asset on Sandbox marketplace.

## Model

```plantuml
title class diagram

class ERC1155ERC721 {
    +mint(...)
    +mintMultiple(...)
    +safeTransferFrom(...)
    +safeBatchTransferFrom(...)
    +setApprovalForAll(...)
    +burnFrom(...)
    +balanceOf(...)
    +ownerOf(...)
}
class WithSuperOperators {}
class WithAdmin {}
interface IERC1155 {}
interface IERC721{}
class ERC2771Handler {}

WithSuperOperators <|-- ERC1155ERC721
IERC1155 <|..ERC1155ERC721
IERC721 <|..ERC1155ERC721
ERC2771Handler<|-- ERC1155ERC721
WithAdmin<|--WithSuperOperators
```
